Edgewood - GuideStar Profile
Search
Update Nonprofit Profile
Products
Candid insights
Support
Create account
Sign in
GuideStar
Edgewood
Transforming Lives, Restoring Hope
aka
Edgewood Center for Children and Familes |
San Francisco, CA
| http://www.edgewood.org
Summary
Programs + Results
Financials
Operations
Mission
We provide the people, place, and path for exceptional youth mental healthcare.
Ruling year
info
1945
Chief Executive Officer
MFT Lynn Dolce
Main address
1801 Vicente St
San Francisco, CA 94116-2923 USA
Show more contact info
Contact Information
&times;
Contact
Email contact available with a Pro subscription
Fundraising Contact
Kristen Barbarics
Director of Advancement
Fundraising contact phone: (415) 654-4100
[email protected]
Physical Address
1801 Vicente St
San Francisco, CA 94116-2923
Payment Address
1801 Vicente St
San Francisco, CA 94116-2923
Donation Payable
Legal name of organization: Edgewood Center for Children and Families
EIN for payable organization: 94-1186168
Close
Formerly known as
San Francisco Protestant Orphan Asylum
San Francisco Protestant Orphanage Society
Edgewood
EIN
94-1186168
NTEE code
info
Family Services (P40)
IRS filing requirement
This organization is required to file an IRS Form 990 or 990-EZ.
Sign in or create an account to view Form(s) 990 for 2025, 2024 and 2023.
Register now
Communication
Programs and results
What we aim to solve
SOURCE: Self-reported by organization
1 in 5 youth ages 13-18 lives with a mental health condition in the United States. 50% of all lifetime cases of mental illness begin by at 14, and 75% by age 24.
Suicide is the 3rd leading cause of death in youth ages 10-24.
Our programs
SOURCE: Self-reported by organization
What are the organization's current programs, how do they measure success,
and who do the programs serve?
Transitional Age Youth Drop-in Centers
Edgewood operates two Drop-in Centers located in San Bruno and Redwood City. Both provide a variety of services to young adults in the communities. Peer Partners lead activities that build interpersonal and social skills to help youth transition successfully into adulthood. Each peer-led program serves as a safe place that offers free resources to meet the basic needs of young adults in the program. The Drop-in Centers provide regularly scheduled programming, including recreational opportunities, health awareness workshops, computer access, a clothes closet, and food.
Population(s) Served
Young adults
LGBTQIA+ people
Heterosexuals
Men and boys
Women and girls
Economically disadvantaged people
Out-of-home youth
People living in urban areas
Kinship Support Network
The Kinship Support Network (KSN) was founded in 1993 to create stability and safety for children being raised by relatives other than their parents. Caregiver services such as parenting workshops, resource access and respite activities support, strengthen, and nurture the adults, while Kinship Youth Services (KYS) focuses specifically on meeting the needs of these children and youth. KSN promotes family stability by keeping families together, encouraging self sufficiency, and enhancing family integrity, individual values, and cultural and ethnic diversity. To ensure our youth and caregivers get involved?and stay involved?in program activities, KSN provides 1) transportation to/from activities whenever possible; 2) bilingual services and materials as needed; 3) incentives such as dictionaries, school supplies, gift certificates, transportation passes; and 4) nutritious meals or snacks.
Population(s) Served
Crisis Stabilization Unit
The Crisis Stabilization Unit (CSU) program opened in 2014 was created in conjunction with the San Francisco Department of Public Health to evaluate and triage children and youth (ages 5-17) who are experiencing acute psychiatric symptoms or a mental health crisis. The Edgewood CSU is one of only a few CSUs designed to serve youth 5-17 years of age in the entire state of California and the only one serving youth under 12 in the Bay Area. Currently, most children in crisis situations end up in emergency facilities that are inadequately prepared to manage children experiencing a non-medical, emotional crisis. The CSU provides a safe, structured, child-friendly and family supportive environment. We accept referrals from all counties in the Bay Area and beyond. We accept Kaiser, most private insurances, and Medical of San Francisco.
Population(s) Served
Edgewood Community School
Edgewood’s Non-Public School Program (Community School) provides specialized academic instruction with intensive behavioral and therapeutic support to students struggling in public school settings due to emotional and behavioral challenges. We use a strengths-based approach to foster the emotional, social, and academic necessary for students return to less restrictive school placements. Our Community School consists of one grade school and one High School located on our Vicente Campus in San Francisco. We serve children and youth from 8 school districts throughout San Francisco and the Peninsula with a curriculum based on Common Core state standards and civic engagement so they can prepare for college and life.
Population(s) Served
Acute Intensive Services
Edgewood Center for Children and Families Acute Intensive Services Programs are family focused and are designed to assess, stabilize, and treat youth between the ages of 12 and 17 who are experiencing behavioral or emotional challenges and crises. All acute intensive services are provided on our seven acre campus in the Sunset District of San Francisco. OUR APPROACH Edgewood takes a strengths-based approach to promote positive thinking and resiliency among the youth we serve. Our programs utilize collaborative problem solving techniques and focus on communication to unite caregivers and youth towards their goals of preparing young people for healthy and happy lives. Our Acute Intensive Services programs target high-risk behaviors and help youth develop coping strategies and stress management skills.
Population(s) Served
Community-Based Services
Edgewood’s Community Based Behavioral Health Services help children and families at home, in schools, and in the community. OUR APPROACH Edgewood collaborates with stakeholders, young people, and their families to ensure lasting positive changes that improve lives. Our behavioral health services are based around 10 key principles that we incorporate into our work with every individual, family, and caregiver who comes through our doors. Supporting Family Voice and Choice Focused on Teamwork Natural Support Systems Collaborative Community-Based Culturally Competent Individualized Strengths Based Persistent Outcome-Based Edgewood Community Based Behavioral Health covers a wide range of behavioral health and mental health challenges. We are proud to have such a diverse staff to address the many needs of youth and families in our community.
Population(s) Served
Children and youth
Families
Where we work
Alameda County (California, United States)
California (United States)
San Mateo County (California, United States)
Affiliations & memberships
Joint Commission Accreditation
2021
Photos
Videos
play_circle_outline
In 2024, Edgewood celebrated 100 of its 174-year history of service to young people at the main campus on Vicente Street.
close
play_circle_outline
Learn how Edgewood is making a difference in the lives of over 4,000 Bay Area youth
close
play_circle_outline
Former Edgewood youth, Clover, shares how Edgewood helped them at a crucial point in their life.
close
Our results
SOURCE: Self-reported by organization
How does this organization measure their results? It's a hard question but an important one.
Evaluation documents
Download evaluation reports
Number served
This metric is no longer tracked.
Totals By Year
Population(s) Served
Related Program
Type of Metric
Other - describing something else
Direction of Success
Context Notes
Number of participants engaged in programs
This metric is no longer tracked.
Totals By Year
Population(s) Served
Related Program
Acute Intensive Services
Type of Metric
Output - describing our activities and reach
Direction of Success
Holding steady
Context Notes
These figures represent the clients served through our continuum of programs and services in San Francisco and San Mateo counties and the East Bay.
Our Sustainable Development Goals
SOURCE: Self-reported by organization
Learn more about Sustainable Development Goals.
Goals & Strategy
SOURCE: Self-reported by organization
Learn about the organization's key goals, strategies, capabilities, and progress.
Charting impact
Four powerful questions that require reflection about what really matters - results.
What is the organization aiming to accomplish?
provide services that stabalize clients, provide support to particpants and thier families, connect them back into the community, equipt with ability to handle the the problems they may face
What are the organization's key strategies for making this happen?
strategies: wrap around services. meet them where they're at, in the community. partner with city and county agencies so that we can provide a continuim of care before uring and after treatment, so they can be best positioned to succeed in life independant from our organization
How we listen
SOURCE: Self-reported by organization
Seeking feedback from people served makes programs more responsive and effective. Here’s how this organization is listening.
done
We demonstrated a willingness to learn more by reviewing resources about feedback practice.
done
We shared information about our current feedback practices.
How is your organization using feedback from the people you serve?
To identify and remedy poor client service experiences, To identify bright spots and enhance positive service experiences, To inform the development of new programs/projects, To identify where we are less inclusive or equitable across demographic groups, To strengthen relationships with the people we serve, To understand people’s needs and how we can help them achieve their goals,
Which of the following feedback practices does your organization routinely carry out?
We collect feedback from the people we serve at least annually, We take steps to get feedback from marginalized or under-represented people, We aim to collect feedback from as many people we serve as possible, We take steps to ensure people feel comfortable being honest with us, We look for patterns in feedback based on demographics (e.g., race, age, gender, etc.), We look for patterns in feedback based on people’s interactions with us (e.g., site, frequency of service, etc.), We engage the people who provide feedback in looking for ways we can improve in response, We act on the feedback we receive, We tell the people who gave us feedback how we acted on their feedback, We ask the people who gave us feedback how well they think we responded, We share the feedback we received with the people we serve,
What challenges does the organization face when collecting feedback?
It is difficult to get the people we serve to respond to requests for feedback,
Financials
Edgewood
lock
Unlock financial insights by subscribing to our monthly plan.
Subscribe
Unlock nonprofit financial insights that will help you make more informed decisions.
Try our monthly plan today.
Analyze a variety of pre-calculated financial metrics
Access beautifully interactive analysis and comparison tools
Compare nonprofit financials to similar organizations
Want to see how you can enhance your nonprofit research and unlock more insights?
Learn more
about GuideStar Pro.
Operations
The people, governance practices, and partners that make the organization tick.
menu
Board of directors
Officers, directors, trustees, and key employees
Highest paid employees
lock
Connect with nonprofit leaders
Subscribe
Build relationships with key people who manage and lead nonprofit organizations with GuideStar Pro.
Try a low commitment monthly plan